Let's get into object oriented programming.
We're gonna be talking about some things that we've actually already covered but we're gonna dive deep
this time.
Things like the this keyword prototype of inheritance.
The new keyword the new iOS 6 classes.
The idea of inheritance object to create.
These are all important things.
We're also going to talk about private and public fields the idea of class based inheritance that we
might see in things like Java.
And then finally cover the four principles of object oriented programming.
Now object oriented programming has been around since the 70s and it's a style of programming that is
very common in languages like C sharp Python Ruby and obviously Java in O P.
An object is a box containing information and operations that are supposed to refer to the same concept.
It's like we're modeling real world objects and we've seen this before right.
Remember when we had the dragon object we actually had some o p principles in here we had data about
the dragon such as name and ability to breathe fire and we also had methods actions that the dragon
can take in 0 0 P.
This data can also be called state and we've wrapped this dragon in an object to model real world dragon
that contains some sort of data about the dragon and also the actions that the dragon can take these
attributes or properties allows to keep track of the state of the object and these methods allow us
to manipulate the state of the object so that we model the real world and that's what we want to do
with object oriented programming.
We want to look at the world and organize our code and the things that we want to do into these small
little object boxes that interact with each other so that we keep everything divided and organized and
when it comes to object oriented programming there's two main types there's class based programming
languages and prototype based programming languages.
And as we know with JavaScript we have prototype all inheritance by the end of the o p part.
I want you to be comfortable with the idea of why it allows us to have code that we can reason about
and to get started with the section and start learning some object oriented programming principles.
Have a nice little cartoon here.
Maybe you won't get it now but by the end of this section hopefully this cartoon is hilarious to you.
Object oriented programming is all about modeling real world objects and relationships.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.